Add initial draft of OAuth sessions post (#886)
oktadeveloper/okta-blog: _source/_posts/2021-09-30-oauth-sessions-with-java.adoc

---
layout: blog_post
title: "Session Clustering for OAuth 2.0 Applications"
author: brian-demers
by: advocate
communities: [java]
description: "Learn how sessions are used with OAuth 2.0 and build an example with HAproxy, Redis, and Spring Boot."
tags:  [spring-session, spring, microservices, jhipster, java, spring-boot, haproxy, oauth2, oidc, session]
tweets:
- "Apps using OIDC/OAuth 2.0 don't have 'special' sessions requirements, but you still need to think about them 🧠"

> - "Confused how #OAuth2 and affects your web app's sessions? Learn more and build an example with #Redis, #HAproxy, and #SpringBoot 💡"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- "Confused how #OAuth2 and OIDC affect your web app's sessions? Learn more and build an example with #Redis, #HAproxy, and #SpringBoot 💡"
```
something was missing, so I added OIDC

> - "Scaling an app from 1 to N, means you need to think about load balancing, session management, and how those relate to Auth🔒"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- "Scaling an app from 1 to N means you need to think about load balancing, session management, and how those relate to Auth🔒"
```
unnecessary comma

> image:

Author: TODO: add social image

type: conversion
---

:toc: macro
:page-liquid:
:experimental:

> A common OAuth 2.0 question we hear is: "How do I deal with OAuth with a load-balanced application". The short answer to the question is there is nothing specific about session clustering for OAuth. The longer answer is, you likely still need to worry about cluster session management. This post will discuss how an OAuth login relates to your application's session and build a simple, secure, load-balanced application.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A common OAuth 2.0 question we get: "How do I deal with OAuth in a load-balanced application?" The short answer: There's nothing specific about session clustering for OAuth. The longer answer is—you likely still need to worry about cluster session management. This post will discuss how an OAuth login relates to your application's session. And we'll build a simple, secure, load-balanced application to demonstrate.
```
smoothing the flow and removing some repetitions... also, in US English, the quotes go outside the other punctuation, this is not the same in UK English.

Author: Typo on the quote punctuation, but I was just reading about that, I didn't realize that was a difference between UK and US English!

> 

Reviewer 2: I feel like there could be more of an intro that describes common architectures:

1. Split frontend and backend, where the frontend is on a separate domain and manages its own authentication. In this scenario, the backend is a resource server that's stateless.
2. Combined frontend and backend, or at least running on the same domain so cookies work. Authentication is managed on the backend and cookies are used to tie the two together. Refresh tokens don't really work because they're tied to the session. I recently discovered this with JHipster. https://github.com/jhipster/generator-jhipster/issues/16361#issuecomment-924331102

Reviewer 2: I see that you've addressed this below, so maybe not necessary.

toc::[]

> == Prerequisites

Reviewer 2: I usually do this in bold, rather than as an H2 so it doesn't show up as a header in the TOC.

> == Prerequisites

Author: ```suggestion
**Prerequisites**
```

- https://docs.docker.com/get-docker/[Docker 20.10+]
- https://adoptopenjdk.net/?variant=openjdk11[Java 11+], use https://sdkman.io/[SDKMAN] to manage multiple Java versions!
- https://httpie.io/download[HTTPie], a user-friendly HTTP CLI
- https://cli.okta.com/[Okta CLI]

== Sessions and OAuth 2.0 Applications

An application that uses an OAuth 2.0 redirect, an https://oauth.net/2/grant-types/authorization-code/["Authorization Code Grant"], typically uses a server-side session to temporarily store the state of the login process until it completes. Let's look at a simplified OAuth login flow:

image::{% asset_path 'blog/oauth-sessions-with-java/oauth-code-flow.png' %}[alt=Login Flow Sequence Diagram,width=800,align=center]

> 1. User requests to log in - automatically when requesting a protected page or when the user clicks on a login button.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. A user requests to log in - either by clicking on a login button or automatically when they request a protected page.
```
clarifying

> 2. Web App stores information about the current session - OAuth state info, and optionally a PKCE code verifier and/or a nonce for OpenId Connect (OIDC).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Web app stores information about the current session - OAuth state info and optionally a PKCE code verifier and/or a nonce for OpenId Connect (OIDC).
```
removed comma

> 3. Respond with a browser redirect to the authorization server.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. The response is a browser redirect to the authorization server.
```
so that each step in the numbered series has the same sentence pattern, so it's easier to follow...

> 4. User interacts with the authorization server to provide credentials.

Reviewer 2: In my What the Heck is OAuth presentation, I have an additional step for consent here. Not sure if it's relevant.

> 4. User interacts with the authorization server to provide credentials.

Author: ```suggestion
4. User interacts with the authorization server to provide credentials and confirm consent.
```

> 5. Issue redirect with a code back to Web App.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
5. Authorization server issues redirect with a code back to the web app.
```
context

> 6. Finalize user authorization on the backend.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
6. User authorization is finalized on the backend.
```
consistency of steps

7. The web app reads the previously stored OAuth data from the session.

> 8. Verify the user has been authorized with the authorization server.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
8. Verification that the user has been authorized with the authorization server.
```
consistency

9. Auth Server response with an OAuth access token.

> 10. Web App stores access token in session.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
10. Web app stores access token in session.
```
consistent capitalization

11. User is logged in.

> Two separate requests are made to the web application, the initial login request, and a verification step; both requests access the same session information. For your application, this means once you start scaling, you need to think about session management.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Two separate requests are made to the web application: the initial login request and a verification step. Both requests access the same session information. For your application, this means once you start scaling, you need to think about session management.
```
punctuation / clarity

== Stateless with JWTs

> At this point, you might be wondering if you could cram everything in a JWT and make this process stateless; removing the need for any session clustering. You _could_, but you would need to use a JWE (JSON Web Encryption) to ensure the browser didn't have access to any sensitive data. It is outside the scope of this post, but there are a whole host of reasons link:/blog/2017/08/17/why-jwts-suck-as-session-tokens[not to use JWTs as session tokens].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
At this point, you might wonder if you can cram everything in a JWT and make this process stateless; removing the need for any session clustering. You _could_, but you would need to use a JWE (JSON Web Encryption) to ensure the browser didn't have access to any sensitive data. There are a whole host of reasons link:/blog/2017/08/17/why-jwts-suck-as-session-tokens[not to use JWTs as session tokens], but those issues are outside the scope of this post.
```
clarity/flow

> At this point, you might wonder if you can cram everything in a JWT and make this process stateless; removing the need for any session clustering. You _could_, but you would need to use a JWE (JSON Web Encryption) to ensure the browser didn't have access to any sensitive data. There are a whole host of reasons link:/blog/2017/08/17/why-jwts-suck-as-session-tokens[not to use JWTs as session tokens], but those issues are outside the scope of this post.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
At this point, you might wonder if you can cram everything in a JWT (JSON Web Token) and make this process stateless; removing the need for any session clustering. You _could_, but you would need to use a JWE (JSON Web Encryption) to ensure the browser didn't have access to any sensitive data. There are a whole host of reasons link:/blog/2017/08/17/why-jwts-suck-as-session-tokens[not to use JWTs as session tokens], but those issues are outside the scope of this post.
```
spell out the acronym once

== Load Balancer Sticky Sessions

> Another option to avoid session replication or clustering is to use "sticky sessions" (or "session affinity"), but this creates a fragile environment. If a web server fails or is taken out down for any reason, all users associated with that server would be essentially be logged out. Sticky sessions also violate the https://12factor.net/processes[12 Factor principles of process statelessness].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Another option to avoid session replication or clustering is to use "sticky sessions" (or "session affinity"), but this creates a fragile environment. If a web server fails or is taken down for any reason, all users associated with that server would essentially be logged out. Sticky sessions also violate the https://12factor.net/processes[12-factor principles of process statelessness].
```
duplicate verb-age

> IMPORTANT: Don't confuse 12 Factor's reference of "stateless" with the previous section; this specifically refers to the need for an application relay on the "state" of a server between requests, for example data cached in memory or a file. Instead, a https://12factor.net/backing-services[backing service] should be used; in the case of session storage, the example of Redis used, which is exactly what we are going to do in the next section.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
IMPORTANT: Don't confuse 12 Factor's reference to "stateless" with what's meant by "stateless" in the previous section. There we refer specifically to the need for an application relay on the "state" of a server between requests, for example data cached in memory or a file. Instead, a https://12factor.net/backing-services[backing service] should be used. In the case of session storage, the example of Redis is used, which is exactly what we are going to do in the next section.
```
clarifying, I hope. is the context clear?

> IMPORTANT: Don't confuse 12 Factor's reference to "stateless" with what's meant by "stateless" in the previous section. There we refer specifically to the need for an application relay on the "state" of a server between requests, for example data cached in memory or a file. Instead, a https://12factor.net/backing-services[backing service] should be used. In the case of session storage, the example of Redis is used, which is exactly what we are going to do in the next section.

Reviewer 2: we vs you - or maybe "I'm going to show you"

> IMPORTANT: Don't confuse 12 Factor's reference to "stateless" with what's meant by "stateless" in the previous section. There we refer specifically to the need for an application relay on the "state" of a server between requests, for example data cached in memory or a file. Instead, a https://12factor.net/backing-services[backing service] should be used. In the case of session storage, the example of Redis is used, which is exactly what we are going to do in the next section.

Author: ```suggestion
IMPORTANT: Don't confuse 12 Factor's reference to "stateless" with what's meant by "stateless" in the previous section. There we refer specifically to the need for an application relay on the "state" of a server between requests, for example data cached in memory or a file. Instead, a https://12factor.net/backing-services[backing service] should be used. In the case of session storage, the example of Redis is used, which is exactly what you are going to do in the next section.
```

> IMPORTANT: Don't confuse 12 Factor's reference to "stateless" with what's meant by "stateless" in the previous section. There we refer specifically to the need for an application relay on the "state" of a server between requests, for example data cached in memory or a file. Instead, a https://12factor.net/backing-services[backing service] should be used. In the case of session storage, the example of Redis is used, which is exactly what you are going to do in the next section.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
IMPORTANT: Don't confuse 12 Factor's reference to "process statelessness" with what's meant by "stateless" in the previous section. There we refer specifically to the need for an application relay on the "state" of a server between requests, for example data cached in memory or a file. Instead, a https://12factor.net/backing-services[backing service] should be used. In the case of session storage, the example of Redis is used, which is exactly what we're going to do in the next section.
```
clarification? or perhaps I've misunderstood the distinction? 
also, changed "you" to "we" to reflect the next section's usage

== Setup HAproxy and Redis

> To build a load-balanced application, we need a minimum of three things, a load balancer (HAproxy), shared session storage (Redis), and multiple instances of a web application (Spring Boot).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To build a load-balanced application, we need a minimum of three things—a load balancer (HAproxy), shared session storage (Redis), and multiple instances of a web application (Spring Boot).
```
punctuation

> If you want to skip right to the code, take a look at this https://github.com/oktadev/TODO[GitHub] repo.

Author: TODO: see the open questions in comments

> If you want to skip right to the code, take a look at this https://github.com/oktadev/TODO[GitHub] repo.

Author: ```suggestion
If you want to skip right to the code, take a look at this https://github.com/oktadev/okta-spring-sessions-example[GitHub] repo.
```

Create a new directory for this project:

[source,sh]
----
mkdir oauth-sessions
cd oauth-sessions
----

=== Configure HAproxy

> HAproxy is used to distribute requests between multiple `backend` applications, create a configuration file, `haproxy.cfg`, that will serve two different web apps (one on port `8081`, and another on `8082`).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
HAproxy is used to distribute requests between multiple `backend` applications and create a configuration file, `haproxy.cfg`, that will serve two different web apps (one on port `8081`, and another on `8082`).
```
connector

[source,config]
----
global
    daemon
    maxconn 2000

    # send request logs to stdout, to make debugging easier
    log stdout format raw local0

defaults
    mode http
    log global
    option httplog
    timeout connect 5000ms
    timeout client 50000ms
    timeout server 50000ms

frontend http-in
    bind *:8080
    default_backend webapps

backend webapps
    balance roundrobin

    # `host.docker.internal` refers to host that is running Docker Desktop
    # On Linux add `--add-host=host.docker.internal:host-gateway` to `docker run` to
    # mimic the functionality
    server webapp1 host.docker.internal:8081
    server webapp2 host.docker.internal:8082

----

TIP: Make sure there is a trailing newline, or you may have trouble starting up HAproxy.

=== Start HAproxy and Redis with Docker

> I'll be running the example web application directly on my laptop, but HAproxy and Redis can both run as Docker containers, create a `docker-compose.yml` file:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
I'll be running the example web application directly on my laptop, but HAproxy and Redis can both run as Docker containers. Create a `docker-compose.yml` file:
```
make it 2 sentences.

[source,yaml]
----
version: '3.8'
services:

  haproxy:
    image: docker.io/haproxy:2.4-alpine
    volumes:
      - ./haproxy/haproxy.cfg:/usr/local/etc/haproxy/haproxy.cfg
    extra_hosts:
      # Docker Desktop uses `host.docker.internal` for the host,
      # mimic this for linux installs, requires Docker 20.10+
      - host.docker.internal:host-gateway
    ports:
      - 8080:8080

  redis:
    # Starts Redis without persistence
    image: docker.io/redis:6.2.5-alpine
    ports:
      - 6379:6379
----

Start both HAproxy and Redis by running:

[source,sh]
----

> docker compose up

Reviewer 2: I've always used `docker-compose up`. It's cool to see the new CLI in use.

----

> NOTE: You can stop the process by pressing `Ctrl`+`C` or running the `docker compose down` command from the same directory.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
NOTE: You can stop the process by pressing kbd:[Ctrl + C] or running the `docker compose down` command from the same directory.
```

Author: Nice! thank you!
I thought there was a macro for this, but I couldn't find it!

== Build a Secure Spring Boot Application

Now that the system dependencies are out of the way, let's move on to building a Spring Boot application.

> Create a new Spring Boot application by visiting https://start.spring.io[`start.spring.io`] and selecting the `Web` and `Okta` dependencies or by running the following command:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Create a new Spring Boot application by visiting https://start.spring.io[start.spring.io] and selecting the **Web** and **Okta** dependencies or by running the following command:
```

[source,sh]
----

> http https://start.spring.io/starter.tgz \

Reviewer 2: You could also do `https start.spring.io/...`

> http https://start.spring.io/starter.tgz \

Author: ```suggestion
https start.spring.io/starter.tgz \
```

  bootVersion==2.5.4 \
  dependencies==web,okta \
  groupId==com.example \
  artifactId==webapp \
  name=="Web Application" \
  description=="Demo Web Application" \
  packageName==com.example \
  javaVersion==11 \
| tar -xzvf -
----

> To give a visual indication of which server handled the request, create a REST controller that displays the server port: `src/main/java/com/example/Endpoints.java`:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To give a visual indication of which server handled the request, create a REST controller that displays the server port in `src/main/java/com/example/Endpoints.java`:
```

[source,java]
----
package com.example;

import org.springframework.beans.factory.annotation.Value;
import org.springframework.web.bind.annotation.GetMapping;
import org.springframework.web.bind.annotation.RestController;

@RestController
public class Endpoints {

    @GetMapping("/")
    String serverInfo(@Value("${server.port}") int port) {
        return "Hello, your server port is: " + port;
    }
}
----

=== Start the Spring Boot Application

> In the previous section, HAproxy was bound to port `8080`, which is also the default port for Spring Boot; start the application on port `8081` using:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the previous section, HAproxy was bound to port `8080`, which is also the default port for Spring Boot. Start the application on port `8081` using:
```

[source,sh]
----
SERVER_PORT=8081 ./mvnw spring-boot:run
----

> At this point, the Spring Boot application has NOT been configured to use Redis or OAuth, but you can still test out the server by grabbing the auto-generated password from the console output; it will look something like this:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
At this point, the Spring Boot application has NOT been configured to use Redis or OAuth, but you can still test out the server by grabbing the auto-generated password from the console output. It will look something like this:
```
two sentences

[source,txt]
----
Using generated security password: 4302a714-580b-4d01-91d9-5d9597ee1bb5
----

> Copy the password and make a request to the Spring application:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Copy the password and make a request to the Spring Boot application:
```
consistency

Author: Good catch!

[source,sh]
----
http :8081/ --auth user:<your-password>
----

You will see a response containing the server port:

[source,txt]
----
Hello, your server port is: 8081
----

Great, this means that the Spring Boot application is up and running! Now make sure you can access the server through the load balancer on port `8080`:

[source,sh]
----
http :8080/ --auth user:<your-password>
----

You should see the same response; if you see a `503 Service Unavailable`, try the request one more time.

> IMPORTANT: The HAproxy configuration used in this post does NOT have health checks enabled, so it blindly will alternate requests between port `8081` and `8082`; this is intentional to simplify the configuration. Take a look at https://docs.spring.io/spring-boot/docs/current/reference/html/actuator.html[Spring Actuator] if you want to add health checks and other monitoring to your application.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
IMPORTANT: The HAproxy configuration used in this post does NOT have health checks enabled, so it blindly will alternate requests between port `8081` and `8082`; this is intentional to simplify the configuration. Take a look at https://docs.spring.io/spring-boot/docs/current/reference/html/actuator.html[Spring Actuator] if you want to add health checks and other monitoring to your application.
```
```suggestion
IMPORTANT: The HAproxy configuration used in this post does NOT have health checks enabled, so it will alternate requests between port `8081` and `8082`; this is intentional to simplify the configuration. Take a look at https://docs.spring.io/spring-boot/docs/current/reference/html/actuator.html[Spring Actuator] if you want to add health checks and other monitoring to your application.
```
removed 'blindly' since it feels unnecessary here, and possibly 'ablist' - if you need an adjective, could 'randomly' do the job?

> Stop the Spring Boot server using `Ctrl`+`C`, it's time to secure the application with OAuth 2.0.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Stop the Spring Boot server using `Ctrl`+`C`. It's time to secure the application with OAuth 2.0.
```
short sentences ftw!

== Secure Spring Boot with OAuth 2.0

{% include setup/cli.md type="web" framework="Okta Spring Boot Starter" %}

Now that the application has been configured to use OAuth 2.0, start two different instances (open two different terminal windows):

[source,sh]
----
SERVER_PORT=8081 ./mvnw spring-boot:run
----

And the second one on port `8082`:

[source,sh]
----
SERVER_PORT=8082 ./mvnw spring-boot:run
----

> Accessing the applications through the load balancer will yield odd results; open a private/incognito window to `http://localhost:8080` and try to log in. You will be redirected to Okta where you can type in your account credentials; however, after pressing the **Sign In**, you will see an error page:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Accessing the applications through the load balancer will yield odd results; open a private/incognito window to `\http://localhost:8080` and try to log in. You will be redirected to Okta where you can type in your account credentials; however, after pressing the **Sign In**, you will see an error page:
```

`http://localhost:8080` is still a link in AsciiDoc. If you want to full escape, you need a slash.

> Accessing the applications through the load balancer will yield odd results; open a private/incognito window to `\http://localhost:8080` and try to log in. You will be redirected to Okta where you can type in your account credentials; however, after pressing the **Sign In**, you will see an error page:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Accessing the applications through the load balancer will yield odd results; open a private/incognito window to `\http://localhost:8080` and try to log in. You will be redirected to Okta where you can type in your account credentials. However, after pressing the **Sign In**, you will see an error page:
```
semi-colon conservation! ;-)

image::{% asset_path 'blog/oauth-sessions-with-java/oauth-login-failure.png' %}[alt=Invalid credentials authentication error shown in the browser,width=800,align=center]

> You can spot the problem if you think back to the sequence diagram at the beginning of this post. The initial login request (step one) happened on one instance, and the final one occurred on another (step six). Updating the application to use shared session storage will fix the problem.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Think back to the sequence diagram at the beginning of this post, and see if you can spot the problem. The initial login request (step one) happened on one instance, and the final one occurred on another (step six). Updating the application to use shared session storage will fix the problem.
```
more active voice language.

Let's do that!

== Share Sessions with Redis

> If you are following along, you already have a Redis server running; all that's left is to configure the Spring Boot application to make use of it. Luckily, https://spring.io/projects/spring-session[Spring Session] makes the process painless.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you are following along, you already have a Redis server running; now we'll configure the Spring Boot application to make use of it. Luckily, https://spring.io/projects/spring-session[Spring Session] makes the process painless.
```
simplified language, eliminate ambiguity

> Open up the `pom.xml` and the following inside the `<dependencies>` block:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Open up the `pom.xml` and add the following inside the `<dependencies>` block:
```
missing verb

[source,xml]
----
<dependency>
    <groupId>org.springframework.boot</groupId>
    <artifactId>spring-boot-starter-data-redis</artifactId>
</dependency>
<dependency>
    <groupId>org.springframework.session</groupId>
    <artifactId>spring-session-data-redis</artifactId>
</dependency>
----

> WARNING: By defaultSpring Session configures Redis to connect to `localhost` on port `6379` and NO password, take a look at the https://docs.spring.io/spring-session/docs/current/reference/html5/guides/boot-redis.html#boot-redis-configuration[Spring Session documentation] for various configuration options.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
WARNING: By default, Spring Session configures Redis to connect to `localhost` on port `6379` and NO password. Take a look at the https://docs.spring.io/spring-session/docs/current/reference/html5/guides/boot-redis.html#boot-redis-configuration[Spring Session documentation] for various configuration options.
```
2 sentences

> Restart the Spring Boot applications (remember one on port `8081` and another on `8082`).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Restart the Spring Boot applications. (Remember there's one on port `8081` and another on `8082`).
```
clarification

Open up your browser again and try to access `http://localhost:8080/`; this time, you will be able to log in without issue!

> Refresh the browser a few times you will see the response alternating between the ports:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Refresh the browser a few times and you will see the response alternating between the ports:
```
connector

> Open up your browser again and try to access `http://localhost:8080/`; this time, you will be able to log in without issue!

Author: ```suggestion
Open up your browser again and try to access `\http://localhost:8080/`; this time, you will be able to log in without issue!
```

[source,txt]
----
Hello, your server port is: 8081
----

And:

[source,txt]
----
Hello, your server port is: 8082
----

Easy enough, just a couple of dependencies to configure shared session storage! If Redis isn't your jam, Spring Session also supports link:/blog/2020/10/02/spring-session-mysql[databases], https://spring.io/projects/spring-session-hazelcast[Hazelcast], https://spring.io/projects/spring-session-data-mongodb[MongoDB], and https://spring.io/projects/spring-session-data-geode[Apache Geode].

== Learn More OAuth 2.0 and Session Management

> This post has shown how to manage sessions for a simple load-balanced application that uses OAuth 2.0. The example used focused on the Spring Boot portion of the application, but it's far from production-ready; a few other concerns would need to be addressed:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This post shows how to manage sessions for a simple load-balanced application that uses OAuth 2.0. Our example focused on the Spring Boot portion of the application, but it's far from production-ready. A few other concerns would need to be addressed first:
```
2 sentences

- A single HAproxy and Redis instance are single points of failure
- Redis data is not persisted
- Redis connections are not secured
- Enable TLS for https://www.haproxy.com/blog/haproxy-ssl-termination/[HAproxy] and the link:/blog/2018/07/30/10-ways-to-secure-spring-boot[Spring Boot application]

> If you liked this post, check out this related content:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you want to learn more, check out this related content:
```
remove the redundant phrase - it's also in the last para.

> - Enable TLS for https://www.haproxy.com/blog/haproxy-ssl-termination/[HAproxy] and the link:/blog/2018/07/30/10-ways-to-secure-spring-boot[Spring Boot application]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- TLS should be enabled for https://www.haproxy.com/blog/haproxy-ssl-termination/[HAproxy] and the link:/blog/2018/07/30/10-ways-to-secure-spring-boot[Spring Boot application]
```
consistent format for better readability

- link:/blog/2018/07/30/10-ways-to-secure-spring-boot[10 Excellent Ways to Secure Your Spring Boot Application]
- link:/blog/2017/08/17/why-jwts-suck-as-session-tokens[Why JWTs Suck as Session Tokens]
- link:/blog/2020/10/02/spring-session-mysql[Easy Session Sharing in Spring Boot with Spring Session and MySQL]
- link:/blog/2020/08/14/spring-gateway-patterns[OAuth 2.0 Patterns with Spring Cloud Gateway]

> -link:/blog/2020/05/04/spring-vault[Secure Secrets With Spring Cloud Config and Vault]

Author: ```suggestion
- link:/blog/2020/05/04/spring-vault[Secure Secrets With Spring Cloud Config and Vault]
```
